# renaidn.github.io

30MFF Website - 1st Assignment - Comm Lab

**Project Name**: Black Cat Production Website (30MFF)

**Project Description**: This project is a website for the only film of a made up production company Black Cat Production. The overall concept of the website revolves around the symbol of the production company, which is a black cat, and a minimalistic presentation of the film. I was striving to create a simple, intuitive, and aesthetic user experience. I wanted the user to be able to easily navigate through the website and its contents.

**Process**: 

<li>WHY CATS? - I came up with a cat concept while making the wireframes. I was thinking of ways to make my website interactive and making animated eyes on the index page looked like a very attractive idea. But eyes on their own gave the website a creepy vibe, which could affect viewers' expectations of the film (creepy vibes -> film genre: thriller/horror) and hence mislead them about the nature of the film. So, I have added a triangular shape as a nose and it somewhat looked like a cat face. I thought that it could be a nice concept to pick up on because I actually did not want to revolve the website around the film itself (because it did not have an idea or a concept to it, it basically is a slideshow with pictures from the photo gallery of four students). I have played around with the triangular shape to make it resemble cat nose a bit more.</li>
<li>WEBSITE COLOR PALETTE - After choosing cats as a concept, I have moved on to choosing the colors for the website, settling on the black/beige/red color palette. Black was chosen as the background color, which I think creates this illusion of movie theater like experience, when the lights are turned off to focus the attention of a viewer on the screen. Setting black as a background color contributed towards the further evolution of just cat concept into a black cat concept. I chose beige color for the text, because the white on black contrast feels too sharp, which gets eyes tired more fastly. It also sometimes makes it feel like there is more content on the page than there actually is. So, I have settled on a neutral beige color. As an accent/highlight color I have chosen red, because it would go well with the color of the cat's nose, and it goes well with beige and black colors.</li>
<li>WIREFRAMES - When making the wireframes, I wanted to show not only the general layout of the website, but also the aesthetic choices made (colors, font, etc), and the implementation of interactivity. I have used Interaction and Action settings present in Adobe XD to get a sufficiently animated and seemingly complete representation of the final product. I have made a screen recording of my wireframes by Previewing the Desktop in the app, which made the wireframes feel less static and more alive.</li>
<li>NAVIGATION BAR - I have started to work on my website from creating the navigation bar because it is present on all 5 pages of the final website. In the feedback to my wireframes, it was noted that the vertical dropdown navigation is generally used for the mobile versions of the website, which is why I have switched to the horizontal navigation bar. In my HTML I have used the nav tag, ul, li, and a elements. Instead of the text link to the index page I have made and added the website logo. To make the logo I have used Adobe Illustrator. For the hover settings of the text links I went with a change in font-size (increase) and color properties (beige->red) in CSS. For the logo change on mouse hover, I have made a version of the logo with reversed colors, and in javascript specified the src change of the image on onmouseover event.</li>
<li>INDEX PAGE - The change in the design of the navigation bar has affected the animation of the index page. Instead of making eyes open and close, I have made them follow the position of the mouse cursor using the javascript. I did the eye shapes in CSS but didn’t know how to do the nose shape. To avoid making this complicated shape in CSS I have just made a background image with the nose already pasted in the center of it and added it as a background of the index page. There is no text on the index page because it felt unnecessary to add any.</li>
<li>FILM PAGE - The film page includes the film itself, added by iframe tag, a button that shows and hides the synopsis, and the synopsis container. I wanted to make the page as clean as possible, which is why I have added a button that shows/hides the synopsis text by changing the style display property of the synopsis container on onclick event in javascript. For the smooth scroll to the bottom of the page “scroll-behavior:smooth” property was added to the CSS file. The scroll to the bottom and the top of the page is also triggered by the button click and is controlled by window.scrollTo method. The cat concept is supported by the paws design on the background image of the page.</li>
<li>BACKSTAGE PAGE - Instead of making a slideshow to display some backstage images, I have decided to go with images aligned in grid, modal window, and a lightbox. By default, the images are displayed in square containers, three images per row. On hover, the selected image is zoomed in (transform:scale() property in CSS) and overlay text is displayed (change in opacity value in CSS). On click, the selected image is shown full size (object-fit:contain property in CSS) as a modal window by changing the display setting of the element on onclick event in javascript. The user can look through the images by clicking on the buttons on the two sides of the image container (different arguments are passed to the function in javascript, which controls the number of the image shown). To exit the modal window, the user can click anywhere on the website outside of the image container.</li>
<li>REVIEWS PAGE - The reviews page is divided into two main sections defined by headings: the Overall Critics Score, and the Critic Review. The change in the design of the reviews page was motivated by my interest in making something more visually appealing than a slideshow of reviews. The Overall Critics Score section includes a cat icon (to support the cat concept), a big sized Overall Score number, and three score bars showing the number of positive, mixed, and negative reviews. To create a sense of bars getting filled in (in accordance with their respective numbers), the width property of the bars were increased until width value equals the score bar value. It was done on onclick event in javascript. The Critic Review section included three review containers. Each review container consists of three boxes (author, text, score), which were modified in CSS by their p tag number in the container (className p.nth-child(1/2/3)). At the end of the page, there is also a “show more” button, which was added to create an illusion that the film has more than three reviews. Clicking this button opens an alert window which pops up at the top of the page. The alert window was done in javascript.</li>
<li>CREDITS PAGE - In the wireframes, it was specified that the credits would be presented in a vertical slider. Some emergent situation has happened, which did not give me enough time to work on making the vertical slider for text, which is why the credits page is the most simple one of all of the pages and the least interactive one. It includes a few paragraphs of text centered in the middle of the page.</li>
<li>WEBSITE RESPONSIVENESS - To make up for the lack of interesting elements in the credits page, and challenge myself, I have attempted to make the website responsive to the change of window dimensions. I did so by changing the all the values in CSS from px to vw, and adding changing few properties of some of the elements in media queries. I have also made a separate navigation menu for mobile version, which is displayed when the width of the screen goes under a set value. The mobile menu includes a dropdown menu that gets visible on click of the navigation icon. The navigation icon rotates 90degress when clicked, it goes back to its initial position when clicked again. The display property of dropdown menu and the transform:rotate property of navigation icon are managed in javascript. For the lack of cursor that makes cats eyes interactive, the cats face is pasted as a background image on the index page.The backstage page was also modified for the mobile version. The modal window and the lightbox were taken away. Images are increased in size and aligned 2 per row instead of 3. For the lack of mouse hover possibility, the overlay text is visible by default.</li>


**Reflection/Evaluation**: Were my expectations and goals met? Kind of but not really. A day before the deadline I came up with a way better design idea, which I couldn’t implement because I was really sick. I am upset that I couldn’t make my new idea come true, but I think that this website also looks alright. I am happy with my progress in html/css/javascript. I was familiar with the basics of html and css, but never had an actual experience with any of the languages. I also was scared of starting to learn javascript because it looked difficult. It turned out to be less complicated that I have expected. At least at this stage it’s not that hard (I anticipate and fear of jQuery, which I will hopefully get to learn someday). I have also discovered for myself Adobe XD, which is a pretty cool application with some interesting functions in it. I may use it more extensively in the future for its functionality and relative simplicity of use.
